wasting money sucks and in 6 months I
saved one of our portfolio companies $2
million in bottomline profit and I'm
going to show you the problems they were
suffering from the solutions we did and
takeaways you can use in your business
today to increase customer satisfaction
decrease refunds get more people to buy
your next thing or upsell and decrease
the dreaded charge back enjoy so this
business was a SAS business which just
stands for software as a service and we
had just implemented this software in
the business 90 days earlier and so we
had a big spike in churn decreased
customer satisfaction scores decreased
number of people who are taking the next
upsell and other problems and so the
first problem that we wanted to attack
was onboarding meaning what does a
customer do immediately after they buy
now if you don't have onboarding I can
tell you right now if you add onboarding
you will significantly make customers
happier and you'll get them to stay
longer and pay more so if you're not
doing it start there now let me tell you
the problems with the onboarding is it
currently existed so within onboarding
there were five main problems and I'm
going to start with the first one first
off it was one to many so there were 25
new customers per call so you imagine
you buy this thing you get an email they
say hey schedule your onboarding call
you schedule the call you hop on and
then you're like wait there's a whole
bunch of other people here and then when
you're on the call the actual stuff that
they were going over was really Broad
and kind of company based it was like
this is our mission this is our vision
this is what we're trying to do these
are our Founders this is our story all
the stuff that customers don't care
about next uh from a value perspective
they were having to do like a third of
the call was helping people like reset
their passwords for the software because
they couldn't figure it out this is an
older demo which I'll talk about a
little bit later uh so this is a 55 plus
average demo Avatar meaning these are
older folks who are doing a technology
business so we need to have way more
handholding I'm already sh a little bit
of some solutioning all right so they
were spending all their time resetting
passwords and talking about really broad
stuff and at the very end of that one to
many call they were then kind of hard
pitching the upsell right and so if
someone didn't take that offer there was
no next steps for them to take so it's
basically like hey you bought this thing
hey we're going to tell you about the
company oh yeah let's spend a third of
this call helping individual people fix
their individual passwords and then at
the end hey you should buy our next
thing and people say well I don't want
to buy that and then they say good luck
this is a big company and in some ways
you can take says if you do the right
things right you can still get a lot of
things wrong and be successful and this
is a new product and so I want to
highlight this is that especially if you
have a large customer base and you start
a new thing you're usually going to have
a huge on you know inflow in the
beginning that causes your
infrastructure to break because if you
were to sustain that level of sales flow
as then you get thousands of customers
to all start every day then your
infrastructure would be bigger but it
doesn't make sense to hire a 100 reps
just for 3 days and then fire them all
and so some of these problems are due to
scale and the nature of releasing a new
product in general lots of large
companies have it happened that's why
there's lines out the door at Apple
that's the idea okay so that was series
of problems number one if you have a
service or you have a software notice
how they're very similar onboarding is
the first real touch point with the
customer and customers make their first
impression of your business from the 24
to 48 hours post purchase meaning
everything that happens until then
frames the entire rest of their
experience with you and so nailing that
next 24 48 hours will increase how many
people take your upsells how long they
stay so literally like adding onboarding
can add 2 three months to your LTV if
you have any kind of recurring service
and so right now if you're not doing it
or just sending like an email with some
lists on it you're missing a massive
Revenue opportunity so the first thing
we did to fix this onboarding process
was we ran a pilot so to be clear we
didn't say hey let's break the entire
business yet again so we took 15% of new
customers and put them through a
different onboarding process to test
whether this new onboarding process
yielded better results than the current
one so what we did was we went from one
to many to one onone now obviously part
of the reason that we rolled this out
slowly was because we didn't have the
bandwidth to take on 25 new customers
every hour which is what we were doing
here we had one person doing six or
eight calls with 25 customers each every
single day and so to scale that team it
would have taken a lot of time and we
definitely weren't going to risk it
until we've proven it out so that's the
first thing we did the second thing we
did in the pilot is we actually followed
the closer framework which is a sales
framework like wait how does that apply
to onboarding well guess what once
someone makes a purchase the last R of
closer is reinforce the decision and so
that actually applies to onboarding and
so when you reinforce the decision what
we do is restate the c l and O again so
we say hey clarify why they're there
label them with a problem and then
overview their past experience and then
you're selling them again on the
vacation on what they're going to
experience as a result of their past
decision of buying now from a value
perspective first off establishing the
goal and reminding them of the goal that
they had is massive and so I want to
like look at you in the camera right now
when we had Allen our software company
and we simply changed the language that
we onboarded people with so we actually
had a similar onboarding process but we
just said hey I know you said you wanted
to make $10,000 a month extra with your
agency or whatever but why do you want
that now they say oh well I want to make
this impact or I want to retire my wife
or I want to whatever the thing is when
we related them taking the next steps to
the goal that they had stated it doubled
or tripled I can't remember the number
it was a lot how many more people
followed through because we said we want
to help you with that John we want to
help you retire your wife and these next
three things are going to help you do
that and then they were like oh that's
the reason I signed up and I am going to
follow through from the low value
version of this where I was like let me
just listen to everybody resetting their
passwords we could give someone a
one-on-one coner experience of walking
them through setting up their password
correctly because is a very low
technically proficient audience that we
were dealing with so we would get them a
quick win so if this is you for your
business you want the quick
win which was getting their login set up
properly and showing them around the
software now here's the interesting part
if for whatever reason something came up
during the on on boarding call we would
immediately connect them with support so
we could get it handled on that call and
so that way at the end of every call for
onboarding the people were live they
were set up they were logged in and they
understood the basics of how to use the
software to get the goal that they
signed up for part of you is like wait
so you did the one: one you added the
Clos in the front of this you got a
quick win for them okay but what about
the sales like this is cute Alex but
what about the money I know I'm just a
bleeding heart and doesn't don't want to
make money
uh no I'm here to make money I'm an
investor I own this company I want this
to go big right so what we did and this
is the interesting part if you already
are a business owner and you like this
more in-depth stuff we have workshops
that we just started uh offering at
acquisition. comom at our headquarters
in Vegas um and so if you want to see if
you qualify for one of those uh you can
go to acquisition. comom hit scale
hopefully we'll talk to you then is that
we found that when we had this
one-on-one experience that restated the
goals and all this stuff guess what
happened we went from
20% of people ascending from from the
old process to
48% of people taking the Ascension offer
so this is one of the things that has
taken me a very long time to learn which
is when you're persuading a big part of
the value equation and if you don't know
the value equation four variables dream
outcome perceive likel of achievement
time delay effort and
sacrifice how dialed and how tight your
business is before you ask for money is
a huge
boost to the perceived likelihood of
achievement and so if everything that
I've said to you up to this point I've
overd delivered on and I've delivered on
time and made an exceptional experience
for you and I've given you the quick
wins I reminded you while you were here
you've got somebody one1 who's got your
full attention then when I make the next
offer you feel like it's very likely
that I'm going to continue to do
business the same way I already have and
so the best way to get someone to expect
that they're going to get value in the
future is provide value today so the
tldr is we didn't need to be nearly as
sales heavy because the quality of the
service was so much higher that they
said yeah if this is a taste of what I'm
going to get later I want way more of
that and let me give you a pro tip right
now if you're not sure what to upsell on
the back of anything there are two
upsells that work in almost any business
that I buy and I've seen across the
zillions that I look at more of that
thing you just bought or more help with
that thing you just bought so people
bought a thing and if you're like why I
don't want to upsell them immediately
well they bought it so they probably
want more of it or they want more help
with that thing they just bought and so
you can get
huge uptakes on UPS sales immediately
after someone makes a first purchase let
me give you a little tip so most small
business owners are afraid of asking for
too much right they're like hey this
person just bought for me I don't want
to seem pushy I don't want to make more
offers but if you believe in what you
sell and someone has a problem then it's
my belief that you have an ethical duty
to present them the offer you don't have
to hard close them but you should let
them know that you've made this offer or
this solution available to them because
buying the way most people think about
it is that people buy on these regular
intervals but that's actually not the
case at all what happens is someone has
a problem and then in a very short
period of time they make all their
purchases and then they make almost none
so think about it this way if I wanted
to start running a marathon what would I
do I'd sign up for a marathon and then
I'd be like oh shoot I need Marathon
shoes so then I go to the shoe store and
buy Marathon shoes and I be like you
know what I don't have any running
shorts I only have the shorts that are
basketball shorts so I need to get some
running shorts so I buy running shorts
then i' be like I gotta go one of those
tank tops okay oh you know what I have
an iPod but I don't have an arm sleeve
for it so it's going to fall out oh are
there headphones that are better for
running so it doesn't fall out of my
head now the small business owner most
people watching this say wait I only
sell shoes I don't want to offer them
shorts and a tank top and headphones but
guess what Susie's going to do she's
going to go take all of this after you
made the hard sale of getting her to
sign up for a marathon and she's going
to go to the guy down the street because
he's a real business owner and he's like
hey she's in a buying window she's in a
hyper buying frenzy and we need to
capitalize on it in that moment now How
likely is it after she's bought all that
stuff now Adam the average business
owner he's like hey now that you've been
running for 30 days do you want an iPod
case and she's like well dude I've been
running for 30 days I already got it
from uh above average Andrew down the
street he already sold me all the stuff
I need thanks and guess where she's
going to go from here on out the guy who
sold her the most stuff most businesses
have some sort of shift that happens in
someone's identity when they make a
purchase they say I'm an author now I'm
an investor now I'm a runner now I'm a
marketer now I'm a whatever insert the
thing that you help someone I'm healthy
now I'm a fitness person now you have
these transitions where someone steps
into a new identity and then there's all
these other behaviors and other products
that go along with that identity and so
we want to explain that and enable our
customers to buy those thing from us the
moment they make that decision because
it actually is more congruent with what
you set in the expectations if I said
hey I'm going to help you become a
marathon runner and then I only have
shoes to sell them then I probably
didn't really believe that much in the
fact that they were really becoming a
marathon runner so they now believe you
you've sold them on this dream this new
identity they could get into back it up
so we've already made some massive
improvements to this onboarding process
but what's the last thing we did well
before this there was no next steps we
were like sayara hope you buy again in
the future and if not you're dead to us
not really I say that to exaggerate but
there's three things we did to improve
this last part so the first thing we did
was we gave them a summary of the
experience and we let them know in the
beginning hey don't worry you don't have
to take notes we're taking notes for you
and we're going to send them to you at
the end of this call that way you can be
fully present and paying attention and
that way you can think about the
questions you could that you want to ask
while I'm here rather than being worried
of like oh I didn't get that so number
one puts them at ease two they're going
to get all the best notes because we're
going to take notes for them the second
thing is we gave them tutorials and so
say Hey you are interested in these
components of our software because not
all customers want the same things from
your service or your product you say
okay you're especially interested in
these three items cool so what I'm going
to do on top of walking you through it
right now is I'm actually going to give
you a link to these three tutorials in
those notes that I send you that way you
can refer back to them without me
necessarily having to click through it
again uh so that if you get stuck you
can just follow along but it's specific
to the things that that person said
clarify whether they label them with a
problem in the beginning of the call
that was aligned with their goal the
third thing we did was okay we've given
you the notes we're giving you the
how-tos and if for whatever reason you
have a problem we give you a point of
contact so you've got a PC you've got a
point of contact that this person that
I'm going to introduce you to live on
the call so you make FaceTime you
understand who it is and now from this
point going forward this is called a
Baton Pass and so if you think about
this from a business no one should ever
fall into no man's land so this is what
we like to call bamfam and I got this
from Chiron svat is a good friend of
mine which is bamfam is book a meeting
from a meeting bamfam is a way of life
no customer should ever not be bam Pam
they should always know when the next
time they're going to talk to you is
never get off a call being like yeah
yeah and then we'll coordinate the next
thing you're both there pull up your
calendars pick the time get it done now
with bam famam that means that the sales
guy hands the Baton over to the
onboarding person they know when they're
going to be talking to them then the
onboarding person baton passes to the
support person or the account rep who's
going to be managing the account on the
ongoing basis and so at all times notice
three different people touched the
account but at no point did they have
multiple points of contact so we had
multiple people who touched them but in
the beginning it's sales rep John and
then next one it's onboarding Oly and
then it's account rep Alex right and so
every point that person knows who
they're going to talk to until that
person hands the Baton to the next
person so the second bucket of problems
was expectations and so one thing people
said was this is way too techy I thought
it was going to be easier to use the
second thing is they said I'm not
getting enough support I thought this
was going to be handheld the whole time
when in fact this is more of a DIY
product the third is okay even if I am
techy enough and I have enough support
I'm not getting the result that I wanted
soon enough it actually takes me much
longer than I expected now when we look
at these three things by the way these
are going to be very common complaints
with any service main reason if you
think about the value equation I was
stating earlier if someone says it takes
it's too techy that means there's a lot
of effort and sacrifice required right
which is one of the four things so they
said too much effort and sacrifice when
they say not enough support it means
they thought it was going to be easier
meaning their perceived likelihood of
achievement was higher and then when we
got into reality they're like oh my
perceived likelihood is much lower
because this looks hard and so two of
our four value drivers have already been
eliminated it's like oh no and then
finally we've got this thing's taking
longer so we have our time delay and so
when we look at these three things they
actually are the inverse they're the
nightmare version of the unv value
equation it takes too long I now don't
think I'm going to be able to be
successful and this thing is going to
take way too much effort and sacrifice
so if these are the problems how do we
solve them so we actually solve two of
these problems with the same solution
and one of them we solved with a
completely different solution so one and
three we did by rescripting the sales
process overall and so fundamentally you
could solve this problem in two ways one
is we could add more to the thing on the
back which costs money and that's okay
or we can simply set better expectations
up front and so when we listen to sales
calls we're like oh I could understand
why someone would think this if he says
it this way or I could understand why
they would think it would be happen this
fast the way they set those expectations
and so we rescripted the sales process
and here's the thing guess what we sold
the same amount and so a lot of times
when you're a small business owner you
feel like you have to promise the moon
but the thing is is that sometimes when
you promise the Moon it actually makes
people doubt you more CU they're like I
don't even believe you and so sometimes
when you actually lower expectations you
increase their perceived like of
achievement because they actually
believe you now they're like okay that
seems realistic and so it actually
didn't change our close rates at all and
so sometimes you can reel your sales
team back and still close the same
amount by just being clear and honest
and to be fair I don't think the guys
were trying to be dishonest it was just
we found out that the way they said some
of these things gave an expectation that
was different and by just doing that we
solved two out of these three problems
so the third one was people saying not
enough support so of course we could add
more support which I'll get to something
we did in a second but what we did was
we wanted to increase their perception
of support and the way we did that was
we made it more available so we already
had support we had a support team but
the thing is is that they were difficult
to reach so we did was we created chat
support but we made it easily accessible
within the software and so rather than
have to go outside in order to reach
them they could hit a bubble and then
immediately be online chatting someone
now remember from the onboarding call
they also know specifically who they can
reach out to as well so this is two
types of support they have an account
rep design assigned to them and they
have kind of General support to help
them through daily little things that
were coming up and in your business you
probably have similar things you have
one person who's really responsible for
the account and then maybe a team of
people who kind of feel the general
questions from dayto day and by doing
this this we eliminated this perceived
problem people had even though we
already had the solution we just had to
make it easier for them and so if you
want the 2011 Advanced business owner
hat what we actually were a to find out
is based on the chat bubble what page in
the software they were clicking for
support were're able to see which Pages
or at what parts in the process of using
the software people were getting stuck
they were getting bottlenecked and so
this gave us huge insights in terms of
our product road map to figure out okay
these are the places we need to be
putting more of our attention so even if
the engineering team's like man I want
to build this amazing new thing it's
like well dude 82% of our complaints are
coming from this one point so we need to
clear up this page and make it easier
for them to understand so we don't have
to keep doing this and so on the product
side we're able to proactively solve it
by making the page easier and reactively
make it easier for them to get support
even if it doesn't solve it so let me
give you one more cool little tidbit
that we did which I recommend across
everything not just on product which is
we lowered the average grade level of
the language we used on the page and so
once we lowered the grade level of the
language more people understood it and
were able to use it and I'm telling you
right now if you're sending emails or
you're writing ads or you're scripting a
sales process or an onboarding process
run the script through a reading level
grader and it will tell you what grade
the vocabulary you're using is based at
and so if you're talking to people at a
sixth grade level or an eighth grade
level then guess what 30% of people are
automatically not even going to
understand what you're saying and as
crazy as this is a huge slice of America
doesn't even know how to read this isn't
about being highbrow and hotty you're
trying to help as many customers as you
can their money is as good as anyone
else's and so if you want to immediately
get improved conversion improved
experience better expectations lower
refunds just lower the grade level of
the language you speak at so to be clear
these are the problems these were the
solutions let's go on to problem number
three so the third big problem was
actually how we were compensating our
team so the problem is we had misaligned
incentives so we had tons of people were
incentivized to sell on the front end
but we had no one who was incentivized
to keep people on the back end so the
first problem here and this is a really
big one that I see happen too often is
the sales team was Fielding customer
support issues and so let me be super
clear if you want to destroy your sales
team and annihilate any kind of Goodwill
and Morale on that team have them talk
to all the disat ified customers that
they sold last week while they're trying
to sell new customers on how great the
product is today horrible decision but
that's exactly basically what would
happening because they didn't have a
dedicated rep and so the person they had
actually spoken the longest with was a
sales rep and so they reached out to the
person they knew that helped them do
this so they could get help these people
aren't equipped to do it also
unfortunately neither are they
incentivized to and so it destroys their
front-end sales destroys their
conviction and they also takes up time
on their calendars and they're trying to
be ethically good people but at the same
time it's just outside of scope the
reason this is so important for the
sales team is that the underlying tone
of how someone talks to a prospect is
going to be their conviction right so
that's a big term but it just means like
how they say the words the pace that
they say the words where they emphasize
where they lean back and so if you want
to destroy conviction you show them that
the thing they're selling sucks because
then they won't want to push they won't
want to ask for their questions cuz on
some level they're like you know what I
don't even know if this person's going
to get helped with this now every person
here has that somebody you know in your
life who had their life changed right so
if you've ever had somebody who you know
became a Christian and then was on fire
for the Lord you can feel the conviction
that they have now some of them don't
have the skill of sales but you can feel
that they believe what they're selling
what they're talking about and so if
conviction is one of the strongest
predictors of sales close rate because
of how you say the words on the script
then destroying that is surely the way
to destroy sales so the second issue
here is that because we had misaligned
incentives our CS team didn't try so if
someone reached out they would maybe
respond maybe respond slowly and they
had no incentive to really get a hold of
them and the easiest way I can explain
this is imagine you have a kid or a
parent or a family member or a friend
who's in trouble and you need to reach
them would you just shoot them a text
and then be like I guess I'll just
figure it out no you would text them
multiple times you'd call them multiple
times you'd reach out to them on social
media you'd call their friends to see if
you can get get in touch with them you
would actually try to get a hold of them
not just go through the motions and so
RCS team at the time wasn't trying the
third was that if they did somehow get
in contact with the customer because
that customer was right there at that
moment when the Cs person responded and
they'd hop on a call with them the call
was unstructured they had no script they
were following they had no process they
basically just said what can I help you
with and then they would go from there
which is a terrible way to handle Cs and
I want to give you a a larger take away
from this so I'm I'm leaking into number
three here every conversation with a
customer has a perfect way that that
conversation could and should go and so
if you know that there are consistent
conversations that are going to happen
with your business you know that there's
a sales conversation you know there's a
lead nurture conversation you know
there's an onboarding conversation guess
what else there is there's multiple CS
or customer success conversations that
are going to occur well if we script all
this stuff and then we don't script all
this stuff why do we think that this
stuff would somehow be better than this
stuff in your mind you're like wait but
the problems they have are different on
the back end no they're not the same
people who say they're going to have
different problems on the back end are
the same people who are like every sale
is the same well you can't have it both
ways sure well they're only going to ask
questions about timing they're going to
ask questions about decision maker
they're going to try and stall they're
going to try and say they don't have the
money for it oh wait these are all
different things that someone's going to
present with here well over here they're
going to say oh I don't know how to log
in oh I don't know how to do step one oh
I don't know how to do step two oh this
third thing broke how do I fix it
they're going to have the same few
things that 90% of people are going to
present with and guess what we do we
script so this is what we did to solve
these three problems so number one is
instead of having no team and having the
sales team field it we created a
dedicated escalations Team all right so
think about this as triage so if you get
hurt the first thing you do when you go
to the emergency is they have triage
they basically figure out how badly hurt
you are and where you need to go that's
what the escalations team did that was
the first thing so just off doing that
close rate goes up sales team morale
stays High because now they also have
someone they can just shuttle people
over to if it comes to them these people
become the catchall the second thing is
okay well now that we have the
escalations team now we can align their
incentives we can create a commission
structure so that we have real cost in
the business for someone leaving one is
we have to give a refund or we have to
give a charge Mark which sucks right or
the bigger one that no one talks about
is you just have a lower reputation
people buy and then tell other people
not to buy so you lose maybe no money on
this sale but you lose three customers
you would have lost over here so it's
worse than a refund you lost three times
or five times the amount and guess what
happens from these people these people
tell other people not to buy the thing
so sometimes not serving One customer
can cost you tons and tons of money so
let me give you a little litmus test for
this if your ads or your method of
getting customers was getting you
customers at call it 10 to1 in the
beginning beginning and all of a sudden
now you're getting customers at 5 to1 or
3:1 and it's only been a year later your
cost to a Car customer should only go up
with the increased cost of CPM meaning
the cost per impression and so if cpms
go up by 15% a year or whatever they go
up by then that's the amount that your
ca should go up your cost to acquire a
customer now the good news is that as a
business owner you can increase your LTV
over time as well and so you can combat
that increase in CA with a corresponding
increase in lifetime value but if your
CAC has gone up double or triple in a
short period of time everyone wants to
believe that they're so good to get
referrals but no one believes that
they're bad enough to get
anti-realists of customers that would
have bought now won't because they know
someone who told them you suck and the
big obvious one is that if someone's not
satisfied they're also not going to buy
your next thing so what we did was we
added a 10 to 15% commission yes real
money on the back end for saving
customers because if I have to pay $200
to save a $2,000 sale then I would
certainly rather have $1,800 than
zero and so some of you guys get greedy
on this but it's like just do the math
and so we did the commission structures
we added the escalations team and so
what about the unstructured calls you
guessed it we scripted it and then you
know what we did after we scripted it we
practiced the script and so we said hey
what happens if someone presents with
problem number one same as what if
someone says they have to talk to their
spouse what if someone says they don't
have their card on them what if someone
says not now's not a good time what if
someone says you get the idea you script
it and you practice it but now we have a
dedicated team that has an incentive
that's aligned and a scripted process
that we know yields a consistent result
and gets people unfucked in the
situation now remember I said that CS
didn't try well guess what the result of
this commission incentive was all of a
sudden because they had an incentive
they were texting they were emailing
they were calling three to five times so
now all of a sudden it's almost like
they give a [__] because they get paid
to Wild I know I'll be here all day so
let me let me give you the the real
breakdown of this to get in contact with
a customer when they are escalated or
they have some sort of issue that's
presenting is the inverse of lead
nurture now if you're thinking through
this with your 201 Advanced business
owner cap a business actually looks a
lot like a bow tie all right so you've
got lots of marketing that funnels into
a sales process and you have a lead
nurture process that leads into that and
then you have onboarding and then you go
back out again so let me explain what
that looks like if you work a lead a lot
in the beginning and then less and less
over time because they're less
interested so in the beginning you call
them three times a day and then three
times a day tomorrow and then a week
later you maybe call once a day and then
after that you call them once every two
weeks just to follow up it's actually
the reverse with a customer so you call
them and reach out to them via email SMS
and call one time today if they don't
respond tomorrow I'm reaching out twice
the next day I'm reaching out three
times we actually increase the amount of
Reach Out attempts we have for the
customer because the issue is clearly
more and more escalated whereas with a
lead you decrease the amount that you
reach out to them as time goes on to fix
the sales feeding issue we created the
team to align their incentives we
created the Mission and then that
created multi-lane ReachOut that was
repetitive and escalating over time and
when they did finally get in contact
with them we had a scripted process that
we had trained on so that they could
execute the right conversation every
time so the result of bad onboarding
getting fixed bad expectations getting
set and misaligned incentives was the
big result and then I'll give you the
takeways that you can immediately use in
your business so the result of all that
work was three main things this is the
net change one we had a 61% reduction in
cancellation so people wanting to leave
or refund or have some negative
experience the second is that 25% so one
in four of the people who got on a
support call an escalation call chose to
ascend and actually buy a higher level
of service meaning you know what I
thought I was going to need just a
little bit of handholding I actually
want to have more and I'm willing to pay
for more help with that thing I just
bought and then three is that
companywide because these
implementations happened across all
facets of the company 2.4x the overall
ascensions and so obviously here with
the escalations we got a piece here we
got a piece on the front we got a piece
on the side but the overall when you
aggregate all these changes together was
a 2.4x increase that was that 20 to 48%
increase in ascensions almost half of
customers who bought the first thing
decided they actually wanted to buy an
even better more expensive version of
thing with more Professional Services
tacked on top now here's where this is
extremely
sexy I only talk to you about the $2
million in the reductions what I didn't
include was all the extra money because
most people don't even believe the
numbers anyways but the extra money that
we were able to make and so the cool
thing is is that all of this drops
straight to the bottom line because
we've already paid the cost to acquire
the customer and software has
notoriously high gross margins meaning
someone buying another version or higher
priced version of the software cost
pennies versus how much we're charging
for it all right so here are the first
five takeaways for you one there's
always going to be a cost of change or
something new and so whenever you're
going to introduce something don't get
discouraged from the initial stats
that's just opportunity to improve all
right so whenever I see something like
that like when we had these big numbers
in the beginning I was like oh man we're
going to be able to crush this and make
even more as soon as we Crump these
things down because the thing is is the
problems are known and the solutions are
also known we just have to do them all
right so number one the cost of change
is fixed number two if you don't track
you don't care and so when I talk to
businesses and I sometimes ask them like
hey what are your customer success
scores or what are your what are your
CAD scores or what which is customer
satisfaction or what are your NPS scores
which is net promoter score they're like
uh it's really good I think our refund
rate's low okay there's a big difference
between people hating you so much that
they ask for their money back and the
massive amount of people who just don't
like you but don't hate you enough to
ask for back because it's inconvenient
the amount of money doesn't cost enough
to them or they just said screw it I'm
just going to move on with my life and
tell everyone I know that you suck and
in the very beginning when I started
asking prodding more around these
questions we didn't have metrics around
almost any of this stuff and so
sometimes one of the easiest things to
do is ignore a problem by not tracking
any of it but one of the most
interesting things that I found across
business and humans in general is that
metrics can be an intervention into and
of itself if I want someone to lose
weight I don't even have to tell them
anything to do besides weighing themsel
every morning and when you do that you
start to lose weight and so metrics and
tracking itself can be a powerful
intervention overall in any business for
something that you want to improve and
so if you're not even sure what to do to
fix a problem the first step you can do
is just track it number three is that
you're never too big for good Cs and so
think about companies like Chick-fil-A
they've got gazillions of employees and
they still have an amazing customer
experience think about companies like
Amazon that sell gazillions of dollars a
year of products now you think wait a
second I've never been on the phone with
customer sport on Amazon well I can tell
you I have and it's good and it's fast
and for a company that size for them to
be able to field the number of increas
I'm sure that they get per day is insane
but they still don't think they're too
good or too big to have an amazing
customer experience number four a lot of
entrepreneurs are very afraid of talking
to unhappy customers but I promise you
that is where the gold is and I continue
to say this but Paul Graham from YC has
said this before he says you can solve
almost every business Problem by talking
to your customer more and so if you want
to know what's going on with sales talk
to the people who just got sold if you
want to know what's going on with the
product figure out where people are
asking all the questions on your page
just get on the phone sometimes ask
people why didn't you buy on the phone
and they will give you the gold you need
to fix your sales process to fix your
product to fix your onboarding so that
they actually will in the future so get
on the phone with people who hate you
and by the way a lot of times if you
just let them vent you just let them
talk to you A lot of them will actually
give you more money too and if one out
of four customers buy something that's
four or five times as expensive you
actually recovered 100% of the refunds
or cancellations that you get think
about this for a second if you have a
$1,000 thing and you sell a $4,000 thing
is your upsell if you get on the phone
with four people and one of these people
buys the $4,000 thing that escalation to
Ascension covered the loss from the
other three so you can eliminate the
revenue loss you have by simply seeing
the conversation for what it is which is
it's also a sale and as a side note
unhappy customers will usually get on
the phone with you so especially if they
feel underserved the pickup rate on the
cost for these is actually through the
roof when we started reaching out the
team was like oh wow like they pick up
pretty fast because they gave you money
and they want their value number five
followup is a double-edged sword so let
me explain here if you sell low ticket
lots of units of stuff those customers
in general cannot be communicated with
too much people love when they're in the
low end to be talked to all the time the
more affluent your customer the
wealthier the more expensive the thing
often time counterintuitively they don't
want you to reach out to them they just
want it to work and so understanding
what level of Avatar you're selling to
can help you understand how often you
should reach out to those customers for
example for me with a vendor I never
want to talk to them I just want it to
work now some people if they're spending
that amount of money with you and it's a
lot of money to them then they're going
to want to talk to you all the time and
if that's the nature of the customer you
sell to then you have to deal with that
so let's talk magically about these
other three six seven and eight so the
first is revenue retention now when I
was starting out in business all I care
about was sales and marketing was just
getting more people in the front door
what I thought it took to grow a
business was to just sell more of those
people and that's only half true now let
me tell you a story of two different
businesses
let's say there's a business that sells
100 customers this year 200 customers
next year 300 customers the third year
and that business loses 100% of
customers every year so that business
has still tripled three years later
business 2 sells 100 customers this year
100 customers next year but they kept
the first 100 so they have 200 customers
and then 100 customers the third year
but they kept the 100 and the 100 so now
they have 300 customers both of these
companies are the same size at the end
of year three but which company would
you have this one because the thing is
is that here you're keeping all your
customers and unless you have a
compounding vehicle within your business
the only way to grow is to continue to
Market and sell more but I promise you
there's a cap to that there's a reason
that people in the information direct
response whatever space can't grow past
a certain amount because they have
basically the marketing team of a $300
million business but they're only doing
30 because they can only do 30 that year
and lose everybody every single year and
so I want to be clear it's valuable to
understand how to acquire customers you
have to learn how to do it especially
when you're starting out but it's one of
those double-edged swords where what it
took you to get here and get started
isn't what it takes to create a really
big business and so in this business we
get obsessed and me personally as an
investor the number one thing I look at
is how many customers last year are
still paying you because I can build on
that base if we're not keeping anyone
then what's the point in adding gas to
this fire we're just letting more people
know we suck the next takeaway is around
pilots and so you'll notice that we only
did this with 15% of customers and so
this was going to be a more expensive
intervention right we went from one on
25 to one on one so there's a huge
amount of headcount that we're going to
add for this but when we test we test
with a very small slice to make sure
that it's worth the investment and let's
say that these numbers had only
marginally improved then I'd be like all
right now I wouldn't have said okay we
shouldn't fix them I would say this
isn't the way we fix them we thought we
had a hypothesis that it would work but
we actually did properly but it didn't
turn out the way we thought and so when
you test you just test basically a guess
that I think this will solve it and so
if you think about this like the
scientific method which you remember
from sixth grade you have a hypothesis
then you figure out did we do the thing
yes or no and did the thing we want to
have happened happen and so if you never
execute it you'll never know if your
hypothesis is true or not and so you
have to have a good guess you have to
actually do it and then you can still
perfectly execute something and have it
still not work but understanding the bet
you're going to make and what is
required which you can Define ahead of
time what do these stats need to look
like for this to be a worth it deal and
if it is then you roll it out and around
Revenue retention that cost that we just
talked about by incurring these extra CS
reps if I can employ somebody for 70,000
a year or 100,000 a year and then they
can save me $2 million a year or
$500,000 a year I'm still getting 5 to
one back on the internal resource
allocation and so the bigger business
gets the more you actually become more
like an investor you have to think I
have all these people I have all these
resources I have all this money and I
want to allocate these resources in a
way that gets me the highest return
within the business and so if you have
something can get you a 5x or a 10x
within the company you make that bet
every time proactive CS so we want to be
as fast or faster reaching out to
customers as we are with leads and I
want to tell you a little story that's
not about this company but about a
different company we have that might
drive this home so we look at our LTV
across a huge slice of customers and it
turned out the second highest LTV Avatar
we had was customers that we saw were
not using the full extent of The Suite
of services we had and we proactively
downgraded them we said hey it looks
like you're only using three of the 10
things we do if you're only going to use
these three we actually have a service
level that's half of what you're
currently paying and you get the same
stuff and here's the crazy thing when
you do a proactive downgrade where it's
actually still completely meeting their
expectations those people never cancel
they're like this this place is awesome
they were ethical about it they reached
out to me they helped me save money like
I love these guys and as business owners
we're afraid to do that but if that
person cancels in two months versus
staying for 10 it's worth way more not
to mention the compounding Word of Mouth
the referrals and all the other benefits
testimonials that we can get down the
road from that customer from being run
like a good business and so if you treat
the customers as important as you do
your leads you'll probably be in really
good shape and hey this is all customer
success stuff this is all getting people
to like you more and spend more money
with you but if you need to do more
marketing let me show you a case study
did for one of our portfolio companies
where we doubled it in 60 days